Chapter 1
The man walked down the streets of the capital with the kind of leisure reserved solely for the elderly. His gait remained patient and measured while life bustled in every corner. Children played, merchants hawked their wares, lovers revelled in each other's affection, and the man walked.

He took in the sights and sounds around him, and gave a gentle smile to anyone who met his gaze. The man saw a park up ahead and decided he would meander for a while before going on his way. He passed through the park gate and stepped into the world of nature – so detached, yet so intrinsically tied to the city. He spotted a young girl in a blue cotehardie brushing the dirt off her dress. He saw no parents paying her any mind, but it had been safe enough lately that children were free to play by themselves. He walked past.

A cool breeze swept through the park. The autumn leaves danced.

The man stopped in front of the lake to rest his aching legs for a moment. He couldn’t move like he used to; even a mild stroll through the park was taking its toll. He absentmindedly massaged his knees while watching the scenery. Ducks crowded the other shore as the baker’s wife tossed them bread crumbs. A family sat on a blanket, enjoying the last few weeks of good weather before the cold settled in. Boys brandished their wooden swords and played at being knights. 

A youth in purple accosted a maiden daydreaming by the waterside. They looked around to check for spectators before starting to blush and giggle as they chatted with playful coquetry. After a while he leaned in and whispered in her ear before taking off his gold ring to place in her hands. He closed her fingers around the ring and gave her a parting kiss on the cheek. She flushed red and held it to her chest while walking briskly away.

The youth sat for a moment, basking in his accomplishment. He laid on the grass with his hands interlocked behind his head, gazing at the clouds drifting past. After his heart slowed and his face cooled, the youth stood back up and strutted across the shore to where another innocent maiden was waiting. He took a new gold ring out of his pocket and secured it onto his finger with practiced ease.
 
The man sighed and stopped watching. He took out a quill and a roll of parchment from his robe and began to sketch the lake. The sun’s gentle rays washed away the morning chill. 

Time passed while the man continued to work. Leaves rustled and fell, dyeing the world in red and gold. The sun rose to its peak. 

The man looked at his completed work and smiled at the day’s drawing. He picked up the quill again and wrote a message in the center of the lake.

The third prince continues his frivolous behaviour. We will prepare adequate compensation for the houses of the two maidens. Word will be sent to his teachers to reprimand further displays. He continues to lack ambition on the surface.
The common folk are living well. Children feel safe to play. Craftsmen are well fed and have extra to spare. Merchants are lively. The city flourishes under new rule. Long live Your Majesty.

The man rolled the parchment and tied it with a practiced hand. Palming it into his robe, he stood up and continued his lap around the park, giving a gentle smile to any who met his gaze. He handed the scroll to a pedestrian strolling past, then left through the gate back into the urban world. He walked down the streets and continued to observe the city and its people.

His eyes were drawn to a girl in blue. The same girl from the park, still without any sign of her parents. He noticed fraying in the wool of her cotehardie, and signs that the same garb had been washed but not changed for months. Although her dress appeared pale blue, a trained eye could discern that the lightened colour came from the sun-bleached fading of a much richer hue. It would pass for peasant garb to most people. Perhaps for the best.

Poor girl, the man thought as he walked by. He stealthily pulled a coin from his pocket and tossed it in front of her. The clank drew her attention and she looked around hurriedly for the sound that woke her out of the daydream. She saw the coin after a moment and picked it up. She looked around again with more urgency.

“Excuse me! Did somebody drop this?” She called out to the crowd.

They smiled at such an honest response to finding a single bronze and went about their day. 

Holding up the coin, she asked a few nearby pedestrians if they had dropped this by mistake. They each shook their heads no.

With nobody claiming the lost coin, the girl could only give up her search for its original owner. She hesitated for a moment, but decided to pocket the bronze. Her expression brightened once again as she skipped ahead, passing the man. The dilemma forgotten as quickly as it arose.

He continued walking at his leisurely pace. What a good child. His expression softened as he continued to observe the city.

In high spirits, the girl made her way to the meatbun stall just up ahead and proudly showed the owner her newfound coin. They chatted for a bit before she offered him the money.

Silly girl, that’s not enough to buy –

The owner handed her a bun and they winked at each other. Her eyes narrowed into two crescent moons as she smiled at him, before darting off into the alleyway. The owner gave her a playful shove as she left and resumed hawking his goods.

– one of those buns. Or so it is.

The man continued walking. He casually glanced at the alley as he made his way past and saw the girl splitting the meatbun in half, offering it to a beggar sitting against the wall. She looked up and seemed to meet his gaze.

“Thank you, mister!” She called out while radiating joy.

Is she talking to me?

The girl waved frantically. The shop owner waved back.

Just my imagination. I’ve been too high strung lately, need a vacation. The man chuckled and continued walking.

A warm breeze swayed the hem of his robe.

—

Shadows lengthened as time passed and the sun started its descent beyond the horizon. The cobblestone road was bathed in a faint orange glow. Fewer and fewer people could be seen milling about the streets, most opting to return to the comfort of their homes as the day came to a close.

The chill that had been kept at bay by the sun’s light started to creep its way back in as dusk settled. The man rubbed his hands together for warmth and took a small break on a roadside bench to massage his knees. He saw a familiar purple robe duck into an alleyway and sighed. The man got up to follow.

The alleyway was dark. Small pools of fetid water accumulated in potholes and the street gutters. The man frowned and continued to walk. He weaved in and out of the shadows, keeping himself concealed as he followed the third prince. Not a soul could be seen walking around. It was as if he had entered another world, cut off from the rest of the city.

The youth rounded a corner and entered the second building down. The man listened but could only hear indistinct murmuring from a quick exchange of words. He heard footsteps heading up a flight of wooden stairs and then silence. He continued to wait, but no further sounds could be heard from within. He frowned again and sighed. Prince, what are you up to?

The man took a deep breath to steel himself and reached for the handle of the front door. He threw the door open and immediately took a step back and to the side as a thug charged through the entryway swinging a broadsword. The sword travelled in a wide arc – the assailant putting their entire force behind the strike.

Uncontrolled, unbalanced.

Angling his body, the man stepped forwards and entered the space of his attacker, narrowly dodging the attack. He put one hand on the hilt of their blade and guided the momentum of the swing, pulling the thug out of position. His other hand reached for a dagger inside his robe. The thug tried to pull back after slicing through air, but the sudden void in his posture forced him to take a step forward, bringing him directly into the path of the dagger poised at his throat. The blade buried itself to the hilt with no resistance. 

Crossbowman on the right. 

The man dashed into the building, not sparing even a second to confirm the fate of his assailant. He grabbed the door with one hand and spun around to its left side, flinging it wide open and using it for cover. 

Thud. A crossbow bolt hit the door and splintered wood flew out. 

The man grabbed another dagger and rolled to avoid any incidental damage. A second armed thug was waiting on the left, but so surprised by the blitz maneuver, he barely had time to react. By the time the thug registered what was happening and started to swing his mace, the man had already pounced out of the roll. Springing from a low crouch, the man threw his entire weight upwards and thrust the dagger through the thug’s chin.

One more up the stairs.

Not bothering to retrieve the dagger, the man grabbed another from his robe and flung it at the crossbowman across the room. The unsuspecting victim would never get the chance to finish reloading. Blood poured out through the gaps in his fingers as clutched at his throat and sank to the floor.

The man looked up the stairs and saw the final target in the building. A burly knight clad in plate and chain drew his sword. The man studied him for a moment, his eyes lingering on the rich blue coat of arms adorning his breastplate. The knight was better trained than the previous attackers. He held the longsword close to his body, pointing forwards and down in a fool’s guard to make best use of the height advantage and narrow space of the staircase. It would be hard to approach from below, and useless to throw a knife. They stood there at an impasse and assessed the best way to break the deadlock.

There was a thud from the second floor and the knight turned his head to look. The man bounded up the stairs in this moment of inattention. Both of them knew this “opening” was a farce, but time was of the essence and the fight needed to be settled. The man unsheathed his main-gauche while running. The knight waited.

When they got within striking distance, the knight moved with explosive precision, stabbing at the man’s center. He flattened against the side of the staircase while parrying. Steel scraped against steel as the man closed the distance, blades crossed. The knight stepped back and disengaged his sword, trying to maintain the advantage of a longer weapon, but the narrow stairwell didn’t allow for much maneuvering. The knight pivoted his sword to the right, but the man followed the blade and pinned it against the wall. Only an arm’s length remained between the two as the man continued up the stairs. 

With his free hand, the knight threw a mailed fist at the man. The man weaved and parried the blow to the side. He continued forwards, rotating his hand and snaking around the knight’s arm to grapple their elbow. He tried to pull the knight down, but their posture was stable and the fist was retracted as soon as it shot out – a noncommittal test blow.

The knight dropped his sword, knowing it would be of no use in such close quarters. With his hand freed up, the knight moved to grab the man but the main-gauche heading towards his face forced him to retreat. The knight deflected the dagger with his forearm, using his armour to great effect, and pinned the man’s arm underneath his armpit. The man smiled and pushed his arm even further into the pin, closing the gap until their chests were connected. He wrapped his arm across the back of the knight and leaned back. They both started to fall down the stairs. The knight’s eyes widened and he tried to counteract the force, but momentum had already taken over.

The man put strength into his legs and jumped backwards while twisting, inverting their positions and retrieving his arm from behind the knight. They flew through the air and landed heavily onto the floor. The knight suffered the brunt of the impact, crushed by their combined weight.

While the knight lay there dazed and winded, the man pulled out a dagger with his free hand and slashed his throat. Anger and unwillingness flitted through the knight’s eyes as his life seeped onto the floor. 

The man rolled over and panted heavily. His body was in agony but he knew that it would only get worse once the thrill of battle wore off. He got up off the floor with pained, laboured movements, and went outside to retrieve the corpse of the first thug before anybody found and reported it. He dragged the body inside the house with great effort, then closed the door and slumped his body against it. After resting for a moment, he retrieved his daggers from the corpses and cleaned them off with his robe. He emptied what remained in its pockets and then threw the garment into the lit fireplace. While reorganizing his belongings into the compartments of his trousers and tunic, the man called out to the empty house.

“You were too casual, prince. Easy to spot. Easy to follow. What are your intentions?”

There was no response.

The man finished packing away all of his items. 

“Fine. I’ll report back to your Royal Father. Return to the palace at once, Your Highness.”

The man went to the back of the house to fetch a pail of water. He washed the makeup off his face and the dye out of his hair. He thought back to the knight’s coat of arms. Just what is that boy thinking? Openly consorting with remnants of a bygone empire…

He inspected his body for wounds. Mostly unharmed other than massive bruising along his ribs, hip, and thigh from the fall. The man pulled out a few pieces of jewellery and tidied his appearance into the spitting image of a middle-aged merchant. He found a cane by the front door and grabbed it as he left. It should cover up for the limp that would surely form once the pain kicked in.

The man walked back into the city. The sun had long descended past the horizon and moonlight took its place to illuminate the streets.

Whose attention were you trying to grab, prince? Who are you trying to lure?
Chapter 2
The man limped down the street, his cane rhythmically striking the cobbles as he made his way home. He was looking forward to spending the night in bed, but dreaded the aches that would plague him come the morning.

He split off from the main road and started winding through the alleys that would lead to his current safehouse.

Crossing through the residential district, the man idly watched the faint flicker of candlelight escaping from the windows of buildings as he passed. His legs moved automatically while his mind was occupied by the events of the day.

It’s already been several months since the empire changed hands. A new era of peace is finally on the horizon, so why now are the loyalists suddenly resuming activity?

He would have to report this matter directly to the emperor in the morning. Should also get someone to clean up those bodies.

The man reached a fork in the road and was about to turn to re-enter the alleyways when something caught his eye.

Up ahead, a girl in blue was sat on a roadside bench, knees to her chest, staring blankly into space.

The man paused. After some deliberation, he turned to leave.

A bitter cold wind tore through the streets. His tunic rippled. Her bunched-up dress fluttered.

The girl shivered. The man turned the corner and left.

In the silence of night, a small sound was carried by the wind – the grumble of an empty stomach and a childish voice.

“Shhh, shhh. Do you think that if you’re mute then I’ll forget that you’re there? Seriously.”

Pat. Pat. The girl consoled the “beast.”

The man walked down the alley for a few minutes and approached a building. The windows of the alehouse radiated a welcoming light. Inside, patrons could be seen eating and drinking peacefully, generally mindful and respectful as temporary guests in someone else’s home. The man entered and grabbed a seat. He leaned his cane against the wall and started to massage his knees while the hostess came over.

“Long day of travelling?” she asked. 

“Business went well today, but I had to ferry these poor old legs all over the city,” he gave a self-deprecating smile.

“Pfft. Come now. If you’re old, then I’m ancient," she laughed. "Anyways, what can I get for you?”

“A hot meal, whatever you recommend. And the usual,” he replied.

“Sure thing, coming right up!”

“Oh wait, before you go,” the man stopped her.

She looked at him questioningly. 

“Make that two meals. I’m going to bring one back.”

She paused for a moment before replying, “Alright, just remember to return the plate or we’ll charge you.”

“I’ve got plenty of money.”

“Bring the plate back.”

He chuckled and relaxed further into his chair.

The hostess returned after a quarter-hour with a plate and tankard, both steaming. She set them on the table.

“Enjoy. Your other order will be done in a little bit. Should still be warm by the time you leave.”

He gave a nod of thanks and began to eat with militaristic efficiency, barely even registering the taste before taking the next bite. In a few short moments the plate was cleared off. The man sipped on his hot drink, waiting for the hostess to return. 

When the second meal arrived, he finished off the rest of his drink and stood up. He left two silvers on the table – more than enough for the meals and a tip – then walked out, leaving the warmth of the alehouse and returning to the cold of night. With a meal in one hand and a cane in the other, the man retraced his path back to the fork in the road.

The girl was still on the bench, lost in her own world. He walked up and sat beside her. She snapped out of her reverie and looked for the source of the disturbance. Her eyes were immediately drawn to the plate of food, wisps of steam drifting lazily through the air.

She stared at the glistening cut of pork, covered in a rich layer of gravy. The savoury aroma left her mouth watering. The vibrant colours of the beets and carrots were tantalizing. She saw flecks of spices and a clear glaze coating their surface. A thick slice of rye completed the plate. Its bottom edge was wet after soaking up the sauces from the rest of the meal. She could already imagine how sweet the dish would– 

–her stomach grumbled.

She jumped with a start and seemed to wake up from her trance. She looked embarrassed, almost ashamed of herself, for having coveted another’s meal. Her eyes lifted away from the dish and she saw the man looking at her. His gaze was warm. He put the plate on her lap and handed her a spoon and knife. She looked at the food and then back up to him, eyes asking for permission. He nodded. She ate. 

The man saw traces of noble etiquette in the way that she handled the cutlery. The girl looked to be no more than ten years of age, but even a child so young had years of royal instruction ingrained into her very core.

The girl took her first bite and her eyes narrowed in satisfaction. The pork was so tender that it broke apart from the slightest touch. The oils from the fat mixed with the savouriness from the meat and gravy, coating her tongue in rich flavours. She noticed a slight warmth spreading in her mouth from the peppers and spices. She tried the vegetables next. Glazed in honey and lard, spiced with ginger and cinnamon, the earthy sweetness of the roots were accentuated to their fullest. The texture was firm yet slightly springy. The small bit of gravy that leaked over added just the right amount of saltiness. 

He watched as she took a measured bite of the meat, then the vegetables. Then pandemonium broke loose. Noble etiquette quickly forgotten, the girl stuffed her face so fast it would put a grown soldier to shame. Spoon and knife worked in tandem to make sure that both of her cheeks were always at full capacity. He thought she resembled a small woodland creature, but decided to speak nothing of it.

She grabbed the rye with her bare hands and started using it to lap up the excess sauce from the plate. Some gravy got on her sleeve. The man coughed. The girl didn’t notice, fully immersed as she was in wreaking culinary havoc.

The girl made quick work of the meal, and soon there was nothing left but a few streaks of sauce left behind by the passage of bread. She looked like she wanted to lick the plate to get the last remaining bits, but the man intervened. He took the plate and put it off to the side. Her eyes followed it wistfully, then turned to look at her saviour. 

“Thank you, mister.”

He might have taken the girl more seriously if it weren’t for the tiny pink tongue darting around her lips, seeking out the remnants of carnage. Regardless, he nodded to accept her gratitude.

“Why are you sitting here alone? Where are your parents?”

“Well I was sitting here and I looked at that building and I saw that it had a face– look! Look! You see those two windows and that knobbly thing?” the girl pointed with great passion at two arched windows.

“I see it.”

The girl beamed, “Right, right. So I was thinking…it would be so lonely to be there all alone, so it needs a friend, right? So obviously the face on the other side of the house would be its friend, but then they’re both facing the same direction all the time so they can’t really do much. But they probably can have some really good conversations.” She nodded with sagely wisdom.

The man made sounds of acknowledgment when appropriate but he started to fall into a daze from the rapidfire rambling.

“But you can’t really have a conversation all the time, because that would be too much, so they obviously need to have some games to play – but it has to be a game that can work with words only and without seeing the other person. So I was thinking of what they would play, the rules would be…”

The man retreated into his own thoughts, occasionally nodding on reflex while she chatted away.

A dress that was once deep blue, far more exquisite than her current circumstances would allow for. Several months of wear and sun-bleaching. The girl herself is thin and malnourished, yet her mannerisms reflect nobility. Brown hair and ash-blue eyes. This girl seems to resemble the old–

“Are you still listening?”

“Yes, you were just talking about how the magpies could deliver gifts between the two face-friends.”

“Mhmm. Well, well, what do you think?”

“I think it’s quite late at night.”

“...”

“...”


“Yes, it’s nice and…cool?” she tried to guess his intentions, confused by the sudden change in topic.

“What I mean to say is that you should probably be heading home. Your parents must be worried.”

“Why would they be worried? The city is so nice and the people are so nice, so there’s nothing to worry about, right?”

“There’s bad people out there,” his voice took on a sinister edge, “bad people come out at night.”

“You’re here at night,” the girl smiled. “Are you a bad person?”

“Yes.”

She squinted her eyes and scrutinized his appearance, paying particular attention to his shoes.

“I don’t believe you.”

“I hurt people and I kidnap children like you. You should head home before I steal you too.”

The girl’s laughter tinkled like bells, amused by the rhyme. She looked at his shoes, then his face, “You’re a good person, mister.”

“Didn’t you hear what I said?”

“Mhmm,” the girl smiled. 

“And I’m still a good person?”

“Mhmm.”

“You’re a strange one.”

“Mhmm.”

The girl froze. He could see the cogs in her head turning, trying to process the verbal ambush. In the end, she just giggled and nodded.

“What makes you think I’m not a bad person?”

“A bad person would just steal me and not spend so much time talking.” She looked down to the empty plate on the bench, “Also you gave me food.”

So that’s the real reason…

“What if I was just trying to lower your guard so that you’d follow me?”

“Then you won’t say such suspicious things like ‘stealing children.’” She gave him a look like he was being silly, “Who would follow someone after they said something like that?”

He chuckled. “Just be careful not to be too trusting. It could bring harm.”

“Thanks for the lesson. My mom says teachers are good, so you must be good too.”

“Your mom, huh…” The image of an energetic noblewoman with ash-blue eyes flitted through his mind. 

They fell into a comfortable silence as the conversation faded out.

Grumble. A suspicious sound came from the girl’s belly, disturbing the peace.

The man looked over at her.

The girl looked up at him. 

“Do you want more to eat?” the man offered. 

“Please,” she nodded shyly while internally scolding the beast in her stomach for being so unruly, so uncouth, so embarrassing.

He reached into his tunic and handed her a military ration. She sniffed it and took a bite. It was hard as a rock and tasted much the same – not nearly as pleasant as the hot meal. The girl quickly hid the strange expression on her face.

“Thank you, mister. It’s delicious.” 

He gave her a look, “Good girls don’t lie.”

“No, really. It’s delicious.”

She took another nibble to prove the truth of her words.

He chuckled.

“You don’t have to finish that,” he said. “Just save it for an emergency. It should last.”

She tucked the ration away and they lapsed into another comfortable silence. The girl kept peeking looks at his face as if trying to puzzle something together. In the end, she held back whatever words were on her mind.

“It’s quite late.” Seeing that she had no intention to speak, the man started to signal his leave.

“Mmm. It’s nice and cool.” The girl suppressed a shiver. 

“I should get going, then. Take care, miss. Get back home quickly before it gets too cold.”
He grabbed the empty plate and stood up. 

She stared intently at his face, “Thank you, mister,” and flashed a cheeky smile.

He gave her a nod and limped into the night.

The girl looked at his shoes and watched his back as he retreated. Her eyes lit up with delight and she tried to suppress the grin that was spreading across her face. She looked like a girl who had just discovered a secret that only she knew.

Chapter 3 (Incomplete)
Daybreak.

An old man with a cane limped out of a building buried deep in the alleys of the residential district. The air was crisp. Familiar sounds of life were emerging from the streets as people left their homes and prepared to go about their day’s business. The man, dressed in familiar disguise, made his way to the palace. 

He approached the fork in the road and could feel tension rising in his body. He imagined the girl lying there on the bench, curled up into a ball to preserve warmth through the bitter night. Her royal parents killed in the purge when the dynasty changed hands, the girl had no home to return to. She spent her days and nights braving the outdoors, relying on the goodwill of the people to survive. The girl had been lucky so far, encountering the good in the world. But one day, she might just wake up in a pool of blood – or worse, captured and sold to nobles with certain proclivities. The man rounded the corner–

–and saw nothing.

No girl, no blood, not even a person could be seen on that side of the street.

The man sighed with relief. He could feel his entire body relaxing, letting go of the tension that he had been bottling up. ‘An overactive imagination does nobody any favours,’ the man thought as he continued his journey to the palace.

It didn’t take long to reach his destination; the capital spanned just over a mile in any direction from the palace at its heart. Unlike the old keep situated along the waterside with defense in mind, the new royal building was unfortified and surrounded by the people. The previous emperor spared no expense in creating a lavish abode while people starved and died on the streets. Coin changed hands freely among those who lacked nothing, while those without a bronze to their name bowed and scraped in futility. In his arrogance, the emperor believed that no commoners – no mere mortals – would dare to defy the mandate of heaven and usurp the throne. The palace was left unfortified. Its walls of polished stone cracked easily. 

When the dynasty changed hands, the new emperor did wonders in turning the once-hated symbol of an avaricious despot into a monument that reflected the empire’s service to its people. If the people are treated just and fair, if no mouths go unfed, if safety is ensured, if wealth flows freely, then what use do royal walls serve? Who would storm the palace and revolt against such an era of peace? The royal family lived and held court in the undefended palace, trusting in the people that they served. And trust they received in return.

The man walked past the open gates and directly into the servants quarters. None paid him any mind. He entered his room and exchanged his servant robes for something more reflective of his royal position, then walked through the hidden passageway connecting to his study in the main palace. 

He emerged into the comforting scent of ink and parchment. Sunlight streaked against the small flecks of dust drifting lazily in the air, disturbed by his entry. The man made his way to the royal council.

Servants and nobles alike greeted the man as he moved through the halls. He gave them a gentle smile and nodded at them to resume their business. He carried on and soon arrived at the doors to the council. The two guards stationed there immediately gave him a salute and made way for him to enter.

“At ease,” he told them after giving them a cursory inspection. He walked through the doors.

The guards held their salute until he entered the room and went out of sight. They looked at each other and shared a small sigh as tension fled their bodies. Tribulation passed, the guards resumed their original positions beside the door in relative peace.



—

Servant quarters, removes disguise. Back channels to palace, emerge as Royal Teacher. Seeks audience with Emperor. 
I see you’re limping. Did something happen?
Old bones, getting colder. It should pass, always does. 
Why here on day off? Students are working hard. 
Trust in their self-study. Good saplings. Other business brings me  here today. Found a unique flower that I believe would suit the royal gardens.
Bring it to my chambers after court adjourns for recess. 
*bows* and resumes place.

Another noble purge needed?
No.  I believe it’s best completed in shadows. People are starting to comfort + peace + stability. Ample food (thinks of girl). And neighbours generous to neighbours. I’d rather them not have to fear again. 

Meets crown prince after conversation. Anything should know? 
Nothing to say, just two old men chatting flowers. Just a hobby. Not knowledgeable enough to teach. If you’d like, can inform the wardress that you’d like to be included in the curriculum. 
No need to effort, just passing curiosity. 
Anything else, your highness?
No, don’t let me hold you. 

Walks into garden, kneels down in front of [flower] and touches its petal lightly. Stands to leave. 

—

Office. Servant enters and kneels. [Flower] received the call. What orders?
Follow P3. Note the locations. Don't engage unless critical.
Believe he's using self/status as bait to ferret out loyalists seeking to use him to betray/vengeance. 

Killed some, on guard. Don't engage even if P3 looks threatened/at risk. Test. Leave the net out, collect all at once. Shouldn't be a third.

Time for own investigation. Property ledgers (tomorrow, at work?)
3 on 2 off
Meatbun

[[palace, not castle. The previous emperor was lavish in spending and a poor ruler who prioritized himself and his court over the people. Cloth/silk from east, smoothstones carted from afar. Bribes changed hands, gold lined pockets. Arrogant, the palace was largely undefended, thinking commoners wouldn’t dare defy the heavens. People starved while the emperor erected the opulent building, filled with riches and culture. Doesn’t matter which lord you serve, until the lord you serve misappropriates funds while you starve. The current ruling family still stays there. King usurped the reign and became Emperor. The palace meaning has changed. It is now unfortified to close the gap between people. Belief: as long as they serve the people’s interests, won’t be overthrown. Fortifications not needed.]]

[[he was a bad man. didn’t love the girl, didn’t love her mom. 


Chapter 4 (Incomplete)
The girl dreamed of a mountain.
Clear skies, nature abundant. Floaties in the air. 
Mist swirled around mountaintop, immortal paradise. 
Men and women flying through the sky on swords/mounts.
Each with different coloured robe. 
Cupped fists, bowed greetings.
Cave residences
Opulent buildings
Jade streets. 
Spells flying, spars, swords, fists, spears, one hammer.
Glow of artifacts.
No hunger. People didn’t need to eat or drink. 
Beautiful, vibrant, like a fairytale. 


Miss baker
Mister meatbun
Mister sneaky

Feels bad taking adv of mr mtbun, wants to do something for him. Been so nice recently. Matchmakes?
Little meddly squirrel. Lady consistently buys buns. Always chats a little longer.

For later story use:

Poetry in the style of a captive princess:

doing homework:
1)
Hasty words cause trouble in the court,
Measured lies with sprinkles of the truth.
Girls and boys play happily outside,
Princess sighs and cries and writes her lines.

[looks at wardress. Pregnant pause. That was my poem. May I be excused]
[no, do it again. Too casual.]

2)
A patient hand it takes to do the task
So thankless, dry and hated by the lass.
But words against fly aimless through the wind
Like vapid maidens prodded, pushed, and pinned.

[again.]
[angry, unfair.]

3)
Rot festers blindly all around.
Ambitions spread with nary but a sound.
Cruel torments given with such glee.
Oh mistress won’t you please just leave me be.

Obey she will, the girl holds to your words.
Doubt not, the spies have wrongly overheard.
A girl is but disposable to court.
Her life at risk, she knows not to retort.

4)
[looking out the window at knights training, pleas to leave ignored by wardress]

Hate speaks volumes, but silence speaks more.
Life births beauty, but power is adored.
Girls seek freedom, but training comes first.
Steel hits steel, but words injure worse.

5)
The dandelion grows through hardened stone.
Man restricts, but nature worries not.
The will to live cannot be simply quenched.
Flowers bloom and crack the cobbled road.



[more laments at captivity]
6)
Cruel winds sting the face of noblemen who’ve never suffered.
The farmer toiling in the fields is thankful for that breeze.
Sheltered flowers die from braving winds and rain that mean no harm.
A strong and healthy crop reflects the beauty of the land. 

7) [bored now, half daydreaming]
The doggy wagged its tail and walked around.
The man reached out and pet its fuzzy face.
The girl looked out, her body locked and bound // (the girl looked out, her chains scraped on the ground?)
The wardress hoped to keep her trapped in place. 

8) dialogue form. 
Kill me, you won’t. The benefits don’t outweigh the benevolent image your Royal Emperor wishes to show. A bird knows nothing of such things, but the walls with eyes and ears are loose of tongue. A bird learns, then repeats the things it’s heard. I wonder how it’s owner’d feel from hearing this new tune. 

9) Dialogue form. The empress in conversation w/ the girl? 

A woman learns to hold her tongue. Her feelings deep,
Her speech has none of that which she would like to say.
A girl will learn her role best served is dumb and mute display. 

A songbird trapped in loveless cages, showered dear in endless praises, maneuvering the trap-filled mazes, filled with preying, hostile gazes.
Our measured words are meant to please, lest heads roll off our lacebound sleeves. And still, we fight and hope to seize – among ourselves – a life of ease.
But lies and cries, they fill the skies of songbirds trapped on earth to die with dreams of flying all but lost.
Little bird, will you be free?
